README.md, before:

# Default Webapp
My default and favourite setup (at the latest commit date, anyway) for web application development.
The main objectives being:
* Ease of development
* Very compact code base
* [Continuous delivery][continuous-delivery]

The web application is based on ***Node.js***.

A live version is hosted on [Heroku][heroku], as https://lit-sea-2983.herokuapp.com.


## Prepare
1. Install [Node.js][node] (The Node package manager ***npm*** is included)
1. Sign up for a Heroku [account][heroku-account]
1. Install [Heroku Toolbelt][heroku-setup]


## Get Started
1. Go to your local workspace folder, and clone `default-webapp-heroku`

    ```git
git clone https://github.com/eirikt/default-webapp-heroku
CD default-webapp-heroku
    ```

## Deploy locally
1. Fetch dependencies with `npm`

    ```
npm install
    ```

1. Start the web application

    ```
node server.js
    ```

1. Navigate to [http://localhost:8000]()


## Deploy to Heroku
1. If not already done; Configure Heroku environment

    First, log in with your Heroku account.

    ```
    $ heroku login
    ```

    Create a Heroku app, which prepares Heroku to receive your source code.

    ```
    $ heroku create
    ```

    When you create an app, a git remote (called `heroku`) is also created and associated with your local git repository.
    Heroku generates a random name for your app, or you can pass a parameter to specify your own app name.

1. The just push your commits to the `heroku` git remote branch

    ```
$ git push heroku master
    ```

    ***Your site is now live!***

    Now visit the web app at the URL generated by its Heroku app name.
    As a handy shortcut, you can open the website as follows:

    ```heroku
$ heroku open
    ```

...

For a full public launch, the site should be given a proper domain name.
That is easily accomplished with Heroku's [custom domain][heroku-custom-domains] functionality.

---

## Commit history
Some arguments and rationale for the design choices of some essential commits ...

##### v0.1: The archetypical vanilla Node.js HTTP server [ [iteration zero](https://github.com/eirikt/default-webapp-heroku/blob/master/ITERATION-ZERO.md) ]

Walking the continuous delivery walk;
We are starting with the simplest possible webapp, just returning `200 OK` - a heartbeat service.
Tell your client that their webapp has awakened.

...

##### v0.2: The archetypical vanilla Node.js "Hello World" [ [hello world](https://github.com/eirikt/default-webapp-heroku/blob/1f5f7e824f10ca3f47f7067c9ba7ffc098838ee4/server.js) ]

Tell your client that their webapp has said hello.





[continuous-delivery]:https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Continuous_delivery/
[github]:https://github.com
[node]:https://iojs.org
[heroku]:https://www.heroku.com
[heroku-account]:https://signup.heroku.com/dc
[heroku-setup]:https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/getting-started-with-nodejs#set-up
[heroku-intro]:https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/getting-started-with-nodejs#introduction
[heroku-custom-domains]:https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/custom-domains

Commit message:

Adding Heroku Procfile for local staging

README.md, after:

# Default Webapp
My default and favourite setup (at the latest commit date, anyway) for web application development.
The main objectives being:
* Ease of development
* Very compact code base
* [Continuous delivery][continuous-delivery]

The web application is based on ***Node.js***.

A live version is hosted on [Heroku][heroku], as https://lit-sea-2983.herokuapp.com.


## Prepare
1. Install [Node.js][node] (The Node package manager ***npm*** is included)
1. Sign up for a Heroku [account][heroku-account]
1. Install [Heroku Toolbelt][heroku-setup]


## Get Started
1. Go to your local workspace folder, and clone `default-webapp-heroku`

    ```git
git clone https://github.com/eirikt/default-webapp-heroku
CD default-webapp-heroku
    ```

## Deploy locally
1. Fetch dependencies with `npm`

    ```
npm install
    ```

1. Start the web application

    ```
node server.js
    ```

1. Navigate to [http://localhost:8000]()


## Stage the webapp
1. Use Heroku Toolbelt to stage your webapp using production environment configuration.
    Kill your local server and redeploy on port 8000.

    ```
    heroku local -p 8000
    ```

1. Navigate to [http://localhost:8000]()


## Deploy to Heroku
1. If not already done; Configure Heroku environment

    First, log in with your Heroku account.

    ```
    $ heroku login
    ```

    Create a Heroku app, which prepares Heroku to receive your source code.

    ```
    $ heroku create
    ```

    When you create an app, a git remote (called `heroku`) is also created and associated with your local git repository.
    Heroku generates a random name for your app, or you can pass a parameter to specify your own app name.

1. The just push your commits to the `heroku` git remote branch

    ```
$ git push heroku master
    ```

    ***Your site is now live!***

    Now visit the web app at the URL generated by its Heroku app name.
    As a handy shortcut, you can open the website as follows:

    ```heroku
$ heroku open
    ```

...

For a full public launch, the site should be given a proper domain name.
That is easily accomplished with Heroku's [custom domain][heroku-custom-domains] functionality.

---

## Commit history
Some arguments and rationale for the design choices of some essential commits ...

##### v0.1: The archetypical vanilla Node.js HTTP server [ [iteration zero](https://github.com/eirikt/default-webapp-heroku/blob/master/ITERATION-ZERO.md) ]

Walking the continuous delivery walk;
We are starting with the simplest possible webapp, just returning `200 OK` - a heartbeat service.
Tell your client that their webapp has awakened.

...

##### v0.2: The archetypical vanilla Node.js "Hello World" [ [hello world](https://github.com/eirikt/default-webapp-heroku/blob/1f5f7e824f10ca3f47f7067c9ba7ffc098838ee4/server.js) ]

Tell your client that their webapp has said hello.





[continuous-delivery]:https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Continuous_delivery/
[github]:https://github.com
[node]:https://iojs.org
[heroku]:https://www.heroku.com
[heroku-account]:https://signup.heroku.com/dc
[heroku-setup]:https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/getting-started-with-nodejs#set-up
[heroku-intro]:https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/getting-started-with-nodejs#introduction
[heroku-custom-domains]:https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/custom-domains
